LTS.md, before:

# LTS (Limited Tech Selection)
- Page Author: Esther

## Intro and explanation
LTS (short for Limited Tech Selection) is a category that bans specific tech and skips, in order to bring parity between systems and frame rates, as well as make the game more fun to run.

## Ban List

### Flings 
Abusing automation to get unintended speed and/or height (All flings, including Dashpad launches and the Whitespace loop) is not allowed. There are a lot of flings in this game. For some examples, see [Bitch Loop](https://github.com/sleepiesther/Dooms-Eye/blob/main/Glitches%20and%20Tech/Bitch%20Loop.md), [ESP and ERP](https://github.com/sleepiesther/Dooms-Eye/blob/main/Glitches%20and%20Tech/ESP%20and%20ERP.md), and [RH1 Fling](https://github.com/sleepiesther/Dooms-Eye/blob/main/Glitches%20and%20Tech/RH1%20Fling.md)

### Quit Tech 
Quitting out to skip Boss Door opening Cutscenes is not allowed.

### Missile Cutscene Skip 
Any method of skipping the missile cutscene in ARK 1 is not allowed. All LTS runs must watch this cutscene and do the QTE.

### Any Doom Power skips
This is pretty self explanatory. All LTS runs must collect all 5 Doom Powers.

### Sploinkys
Abusing Gravity Panels in ARK1 to stomp in unintended directions is not allowed. Stuff like [Super Mario](https://github.com/sleepiesther/Dooms-Eye/blob/main/Glitches%20and%20Tech/Super%20Mario.md), that abuses the gravity shifts in levels, does not fall into this. This ban specifically applies to abusing the green gravity panels.

### Tube Glitch 
Keeping autorun physics from an autorun tube in unintended areas is not allowed. See [Tube Glitch](https://github.com/sleepiesther/Dooms-Eye/blob/main/Glitches%20and%20Tech/Tube%20Glitch.md)

### DSJ, DDS, QDS, TDS
Escaping the dive in the RC1 Radical Highway section is not allowed. See [Dive Skip Jump](https://github.com/sleepiesther/Dooms-Eye/blob/main/Glitches%20and%20Tech/Dive%20Skip%20Jump.md)

### Zoomies
Taking damage in autorun sequences to get immense speed is not allowed. See [Zoomies and Hyperzoomies](https://github.com/sleepiesther/Dooms-Eye/blob/main/Glitches%20and%20Tech/Zoomies%20and%20Hyperzoomies.md)

### FPS Swapping
Changing your framerate during the run is not allowed.

### 3D in 2D, Freecam in 2D
Any tricks that give you access to a 3D or Free Camera in 2D stages is not allowed.

### HutHutHut
Walking on the back of the Biolizard to deal damage early in the 1st Phase is not allowed.

### Banned tech per level

- ARK 1: Sploinkys, Mohawk Tuah, Tube Glitch, Missile Skip
- ARK 2: I Rember 😄 Skip (Wings only), FPS Skip (AS only)
- RC 1: ESP and ERP, Dive Skip Jump
- RC 2: RC2 Fling
- Biolizard: HutHutHut
- KV 2: Loop Oneah (Wings only), Loop Tuah
- SH 1: Zoomies and Hyperzoomies
- SH 2: IDK Skip
- CI 2: I Forgor 💀 Skip (Wings only)
- RH 1: RH1 Fling
- RH 2: Teleport Fling
- White Space (Any% only): Quit Tech, Bitch Loop, Wings Skip

Commit message:

Update LTS.md to account for missile skip being banned in wingless only

LTS.md, after:

# LTS (Limited Tech Selection)
- Page Author: Esther

## Intro and explanation
LTS (short for Limited Tech Selection) is a category that bans specific tech and skips, in order to bring parity between systems and frame rates, as well as make the game more fun to run.

## Ban List

### Flings 
Abusing automation to get unintended speed and/or height (All flings, including Dashpad launches and the Whitespace loop) is not allowed. There are a lot of flings in this game. For some examples, see [Bitch Loop](https://github.com/sleepiesther/Dooms-Eye/blob/main/Glitches%20and%20Tech/Bitch%20Loop.md), [ESP and ERP](https://github.com/sleepiesther/Dooms-Eye/blob/main/Glitches%20and%20Tech/ESP%20and%20ERP.md), and [RH1 Fling](https://github.com/sleepiesther/Dooms-Eye/blob/main/Glitches%20and%20Tech/RH1%20Fling.md)

### Quit Tech 
Quitting out to skip Boss Door opening Cutscenes is not allowed.

### Missile Cutscene Skip 
Any method of skipping the missile cutscene in ARK 1 is not allowed in wingless categories. All wingless LTS runs must watch this cutscene and do the QTE. The reason this skip isn't banned in Wings runs is because it's a lot simpler to perform with Wings.

### Any Doom Power skips
This is pretty self explanatory. All LTS runs must collect all 5 Doom Powers.

### Sploinkys
Abusing Gravity Panels in ARK1 to stomp in unintended directions is not allowed. Stuff like [Super Mario](https://github.com/sleepiesther/Dooms-Eye/blob/main/Glitches%20and%20Tech/Super%20Mario.md), that abuses the gravity shifts in levels, does not fall into this. This ban specifically applies to abusing the green gravity panels.

### Tube Glitch 
Keeping autorun physics from an autorun tube in unintended areas is not allowed. See [Tube Glitch](https://github.com/sleepiesther/Dooms-Eye/blob/main/Glitches%20and%20Tech/Tube%20Glitch.md)

### DSJ, DDS, QDS, TDS
Escaping the dive in the RC1 Radical Highway section is not allowed. See [Dive Skip Jump](https://github.com/sleepiesther/Dooms-Eye/blob/main/Glitches%20and%20Tech/Dive%20Skip%20Jump.md)

### Zoomies
Taking damage in autorun sequences to get immense speed is not allowed. See [Zoomies and Hyperzoomies](https://github.com/sleepiesther/Dooms-Eye/blob/main/Glitches%20and%20Tech/Zoomies%20and%20Hyperzoomies.md)

### FPS Swapping
Changing your framerate during the run is not allowed.

### 3D in 2D, Freecam in 2D
Any tricks that give you access to a 3D or Free Camera in 2D stages is not allowed.

### HutHutHut
Walking on the back of the Biolizard to deal damage early in the 1st Phase is not allowed.

### Banned tech per level

- ARK 1: Sploinkys, Mohawk Tuah, Tube Glitch, Missile Skip (Wingless only)
- ARK 2: I Rember 😄 Skip (Wings only), FPS Skip (AS only)
- RC 1: ESP and ERP, Dive Skip Jump
- RC 2: RC2 Fling
- Biolizard: HutHutHut
- KV 2: Loop Oneah (Wings only), Loop Tuah
- SH 1: Zoomies and Hyperzoomies
- SH 2: IDK Skip
- CI 2: I Forgor 💀 Skip (Wings only)
- RH 1: RH1 Fling
- RH 2: Teleport Fling
- White Space (Any% only): Quit Tech, Bitch Loop, Wings Skip
